API changes:

- ``DOELibrary.DIMENSION``: removed as it was no longer used.
- ``DOELibrary.LEVEL_KEYWORD``: removed as it was no longer used.
- ``DOELibrary.PHIP_CRITERIA``: removed as it was no longer used.
- ``DOELibrary.SAMPLES_TAG``: removed as it was no longer used.
- ``DOELibrary.DESIGN_ALGO_NAME``: removed as it was no longer used.
- ``DOELibraryOutputType``: removed; use ``EvaluationType`` instead.
- ``DOELibraryOptionType``: removed; use ``DriverLibraryOptionType`` instead.
- ``DOELibrary.__call__``: removed; use ``BaseDOELibrary.compute_doe`` instead.
- ``DOELibrary.evaluate_samples``: removed; use ``BaseDOELibrary.execute`` instead.
- ``DOELibrary.eval_jac``: removed as it was no longer used; note, however, that the DOE algorithm option ``eval_jac`` is still available.
- ``AutoPyDiscipline.input_names``: removed; use ``MDODiscipline`` API instead.
- ``AutoPyDiscipline.output_names``: removed; use ``MDODiscipline`` API instead.
- ``AutoPyDiscipline.use_arrays``: removed as it was no longer used.
- ``gemseo.disciplines.auto_py.to_arrays_dict``: removed as it was no longer used.
- ``AnalyticDiscipline``'s ``fast_evaluation`` argument: removed; always use fast evaluation.
- ``SobieskiBase.DTYPE_COMPLEX``: removed; use ``SobieskiBase.DataType.COMPLEX`` instead.
- ``SobieskiBase.DTYPE_DOUBLE``: removed; use ``SobieskiBase.DataType.FLOAT`` instead.
- ``SobieskiBase.DTYPE_DEFAULT``: removed as it was no longer used.
- ``SobieskiDiscipline.DTYPE_COMPLEX``: removed; use ``SobieskiBase.DataType.COMPLEX`` instead.
- ``SobieskiDiscipline.DTYPE_DOUBLE``: removed; use ``SobieskiBase.DataType.FLOAT`` instead.
- ``Boxplot.opacity_level``: removed; use the ``opacity_level`` option of ``Boxplot`` instead.
- ``MLQualityMeasure.evaluate_bootstrap``: removed; use ``BaseMLAlgoQuality.compute_bootstrap_measure`` instead.
- ``MLQualityMeasure.evaluate_kfolds``: removed; use ``BaseMLAlgoQuality.compute_cross_validation_measure`` instead.
- ``MLQualityMeasure.evaluate_learn``: removed; use ``BaseMLAlgoQuality.compute_learning_measure`` instead.
- ``MLQualityMeasure.evaluate_loo``: removed; use ``BaseMLAlgoQuality.compute_leave_one_out_measure`` instead.
- ``MLQualityMeasure.evaluate_test``: removed; use ``BaseMLAlgoQuality.compute_test_measure`` instead.
- ``OptimizationProblem``'s ``callback_func`` argument renamed to ``callback``.
- ``OptimizationProblem.change_objective_sign``: removed; use ``OptimizationProblem.minimize_objective`` instead.
- ``DriverLibrary.get_x0_and_bounds_vects`` renamed to ``BaseDriverLibrary.get_x0_and_bounds``.
- ``DriverLibOptionType`` renamed to ``DriverLibraryOptionType``.
- ``gemseo.algos.progress_bar``: removed; replace by the *protected* package ``gemseo.algos._progress_bars``.
- ``CustomDOE.read_file``'s ``dimension`` argument: removed as it was unused.
- ``gemseo.SEED``: removed; use ``gemseo.utils.seeder.SEED`` instead.
- ``OptimizationLibrary.algorithm_handles_eqcstr`` renamed to ``BaseOptimizationLibrary.check_equality_constraint_support``.
- ``OptimizationLibrary.algorithm_handles_ineqcstr`` renamed to ``BaseOptimizationLibrary.check_inequality_constraint_support``.
- ``OptimizationLibrary.is_algo_requires_positive_cstr`` renamed to ``BaseOptimizationLibrary.check_positivity_constraint_requirement``.
- ``FininiteElementAnalysis`` renamed to ``FiniteElementAnalysis``.
- ``RestrictedFunction``'s ``orig_function`` argument renamed to ``function``.
- ``LinearCompositeFunction``'s ``orig_function`` argument renamed to ``function``.
- ``LinearCompositeFunction``'s ``interp_operator`` argument renamed to ``matrix``.
- ``ScalableDiagonalApproximation``'s ``seed`` argument: removed since it was not used.
- ``gemseo.utils.multiprocessing.get_multi_processing_manager`` moved to ``gemseo.utils.multiprocessing.manager``.
- ``DOELibrary.export_samples``: removed because it simply saved the NumPy array ``BaseDOELibrary.unit_samples`` to a text file; use ``numpy.savetxt(file_path, doe_library.unit_samples, delimiter=",")`` to obtain the same result.
- ``DiscFromExe``'s ``use_shell`` argument: removed as it was no longer used.
- ``DiscFromExe``'s ``executable_command`` argument renamed to ``command_line``.
- ``DiscFromExe.executable_command`` renamed to ``DiscFromExe.command_line``.
- ``DiscFromExe``'s ``folders_iter`` argument renamed to ``directory_naming_method``.
- ``DiscFromExe``'s ``output_folder_basepath`` argument renamed to ``root_directory``.
- ``gemseo.utils.data_conversion.dict_to_array``: removed; use `` gemseo.utils.data_conversion.concatenate_dict_of_arrays_to_array`` instead.
- ``gemseo.utils.data_conversion.array_to_dict``: removed; use `` gemseo.utils.data_conversion.split_array_to_dict_of_arrays`` instead.
- ``gemseo.utils.data_conversion.update_dict_of_arrays_from_array``: removed since it was not used.
- ``DirectoryCreator.get_unique_run_folder_path`` removed; use ``DirectoryCreator.create`` instead.
- ``BaseGrammmar.update``'s ``exclude_names`` argument renamed to ``excluded_names``.
- ``OptimizationProblem.get_violation_criteria`` renamed to ``OptimizationProblem.check_design_point_is_feasible``.
- ``SensitivityAnalysis.outputs`` renamed to ``SensitivityAnalysis.output_names``.
- ``MDAQuasiNewton``: the quasi-Newton method names are no longer attributes but names of the enumeration ``MDAQuasiNewton.QuasiNewtonMethod``.
- ``MDANewtonRaphson``'s ``relax_factor`` argument and attributes removed; use ``over_relaxation_factor`` instead.
- ``MDAJacobi``'s ``SECANT_ACCELERATION`` and ``M2D_ACCELERATION`` attributes removed; use ``AccelerationMethod`` instead.
- ``MDAJacobi``'s ``acceleration`` argument and attribute removed; use ``acceleration_method`` instead.
- ``MDAJacobi``'s ``over_relax_factor`` argument and attribute removed; use ``over_relaxation_factor`` instead.
- ``OptPostProcessor``'s ``opt_grammar`` argument renamed to ``option_grammar``.
- ``gemseo.core.mdofunctions.func_operations.LinearComposition`` renamed to ``gemseo.core.mdofunctions.linear_composite_function.LinearCompositeFunction``.
- ``gemseo.core.mdofunctions.func_operations.RestrictedFunction`` renamed to ``gemseo.core.mdofunctions.restricted_function.RestrictedFunction``.
- ``gemseo.caches._hdf5_file_singleton`` including ``HDF5FileSingleton`` is now a protected module.
- ``gemseo.algos.opt_problem`` renamed to ``gemseo.algos.optimization_problem``.
- ``gemseo.algos.opt_result`` renamed to ``gemseo.algos.optimization_result``.
- ``gemseo.algos.opt_result`` renamed to ``gemseo.algos.multiobjective_optimization_result``.
- ``gemseo.algos.pareto`` renamed to ``gemseo.algos.pareto.pareto_front``.
- ``gemseo.algos.pareto_front`` split into ``gemseo.algos.pareto.utils`` (including ``compute_pareto_optimal_points`` and ``generate_pareto_plots``) and ``gemseo.algos.pareto.pareto_plot_biobjective`` (including ``ParetoPlotBiObjective``).
- ``LinearCompositeFunction.name`` is ``"[f o A]"`` where ``"f"`` is the name of the original function.
- ``BaseMDOFormulation``'s ``NAME`` attribute: removed as it was not longer used.
- ``gemseo.formulations.mdo_formulation.MDOFormulation`` renamed to ``gemseo.formulations.base_mdo_formulation.BaseMDOFormulation``
