- The `**options` arguments of `DesignSpace.from_file` were removed because they were deprecated. Use the new `append` argument instead.
- The `**options` arguments of `DesignSpace.to_file` were removed because they were deprecated.
- The `header_char` and `**table_options` arguments of `DesignSpace.to_csv` were removed because they were deprecated.
- `gemseo.utils.logging.DEFAULT_DATE_FORMAT` was removed.
- `gemseo.utils.logging.DEFAULT_MESSAGE_FORMAT` was removed.
- `gemseo.utils.logging.LoggingSettings` was removed.
- `gemseo.utils.logging.LOGGING_SETTINGS` was removed; use `gemseo.configuration.logger` instead.
- The `probability_space` field of `PCERegressor_Settings` was removed; the probability space must be defined by `data.misc["input_space"]` where `data` is the first argument of `PCERegressor`. Note that this `data.misc["input_space"]` is automatically set when `data` is generated by a DOE algorithm over a `ParameterSpace`.
- The `header_char` and `**options` arguments of `write_design_space` were removed because they were deprecated; use the new argument `append` instead.
- The `input_names` attribute of `AutoPyDiscipline` was removed; use `list(discipline.io.input_grammar)` instead.
- The `output_names` attribute of `AutoPyDiscipline` was removed; use `list(discipline.io.output_grammar)` instead.
- The `dtype` argument of `SellarDesignSpace` was removed because it was not used.
- The `set_descriptions` method of `PydanticGrammar` was removed because it was deprecated; use `grammar.descriptions.update` instead.
- The `"DEFAULT"` linear solver was removed; use its alias instead, namely`"LGMRES"`.
- The `mapping` and `reverse_mapping` of `NameMapping` were removed.
- `Augmented_Lagrangian_order_1_Settings` was removed; use `Augmented_Lagrangian_Order_1_Settings` instead.
- `BaseAlgorithmSettings` was removed; use `BaseSettings` instead.
- The `enable` and `disable` methods of `BaseExecutionSequence` were removed; use the `is_enabled` attribute instead.
- All the arguments of the `generate_samples` method of `BaseDOE` and its subclasses were removed, except `dimension` and `settings` which are positional arguments now; use the fields of the `settings` argument instead.
