:class:`.Dataset` inherits from :class:`DataFrame` and uses multi-indexing columns.
Some methods have been added to improve the use of multi-index.
Two derived classes (:class:`.IODataset` and :class:`.OptimizationDataset`) can be considered for specific usages.

API change:

- :class:`.Dataset` can be imported from ``src.gemseo.datasets.dataset``.
- :class:`.Dataset` no longer has the ``get_data_by_group``, ``get_all_data`` and ``get_data_by_names`` methods. Use :meth:`~.Dataset.get_view`` instead.
    It returns a sliced :class:`.Dataset`, to focus on some parts.
    Different formats can be used to extract data using pandas default methods.
- :class:`.Dataset` no longer has the ``export_to_dataframe`` method, since it is a ``DataFrame`` itself.
- :class:`.Dataset` no longer has the ``length``; use ``len(dataset)`` instead.
- :class:`.Dataset` no longer has the ``is_empty`` method. Use pandas attribute ``empty`` instead.
- :class:`.Dataset` no longer has the :method:`.export_to_cache` method.
- :class:`.Dataset` no longer has the ``row_names`` attribute. Use ``index`` instead.
- :meth:`.Dataset.add_variable` no longer has the ``group`` argument. Use ``group_name`` instead.
- :meth:`.Dataset.add_variable` no longer has the ``name`` argument. Use ``variable_name`` instead.
- :meth:`.Dataset.add_variable` no longer has the ``cache_as_input`` argument.
- :meth:`.Dataset.add_group` no longer has the ``group`` argument. Use ``group_name`` instead.
- :meth:`.Dataset.add_group` no longer has the ``variables`` argument. Use ``variable_names`` instead.
- :meth:`.Dataset.add_group` no longer has the ``sizes`` argument. Use ``variable_names_to_n_components`` instead.
- :meth:`.Dataset.add_group` no longer has the ``cache_as_input`` and ``pattern`` arguments.
- :meth:`~.gemseo.load_dataset` is renamed: :meth:`~gemseo.create_benchmark_dataset`.
    Can be used to create a Burgers, Iris or Rosenbrock dataset.
- :class:`.BurgerDataset` no longer exists. Create a Burger dataset with :function:`.create_burgers_dataset`.
- :class:`.IrisDataset` no longer exists. Create an Iris dataset with :function:`.create_iris_dataset`.
- :class:`.RosenbrockDataset` no longer exists. Create a Rosenbrock dataset with :function:`.create_rosenbrock_dataset`.
- :mod:`.problems.dataset.factory` no longer exists.
- :meth:`~.Scenario.to_dataset` no longer has the ``by_group`` argument.
- :meth:`.AbstractCache.to_dataset` no longer has the ``by_group`` and ``name`` arguments.
