---
description: ""
tags: ['user_guide']
search:
  boost: 2
---

<!--
 Copyright 2021 IRT Saint Exupéry, https://www.irt-saintexupery.com

 This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0
 International License. To view a copy of this license, visit
 http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/ or send a letter to Creative
 Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA.
-->

# The Design Space

!!! info "Tutorial"

    - [Tutorial - The design space][tutorial-the-design-space]

!!! info "How-to"

    - [How to import and export a design space from disk][how-to-import-and-export-a-design-space-from-disk]
    - [How to reduce a design space][how-to-reduce-a-design-space]
    - [How to project parameters into boundaries][how-to-project-parameters-into-boundaries]
    - [How to (un)normalize design parameters][how-to-unnormalize-design-parameters]
    - [How to cast parameters into different types][how-to-cast-parameters-into-different-types]

The Design Space defines the domain of design variables for your problem.
It specifies for each design variable its name,
type (continuous, integer, or discrete),
lower and upper bounds,
and optionally an initial value.

For example, in an aerodynamic optimization,
your design space might include a continuous variable "wing_span"
bounded between 10 and 15 meters,
an integer variable "number_of_ribs" between 5 and 20,
and discrete variables for material selection.
In that case, any algorithm has to find the best solution
by changing the values of these 3 variables into their boundaries.

In GEMSEO, the design space is implemented through
the [DesignSpace][gemseo.algos.design_space.DesignSpace] class,
which serves as a container storing all variable definitions and their current values.
This centralized representation ensures that
all components of your optimization workflow
(MDO formulations, algorithms, and post-processing tools)
work with a consistent definition of the design variables,
eliminating ambiguity and reducing errors in complex multi-disciplinary studies.

## Normalization of the variables

Design variables can be normalized by the design space.
Different normalizations can be used to transform a given variable
$x$ into $x_{\mathrm{normalized}}$,
so that $x_{\mathrm{normalized} = \frac{x-lb_x}{ub_x-lb_x}}$ or
$x_{\mathrm{normalized}} = \frac{x}{ub_x-lb_x}$.

!!! note
    Obviously, unormalization processes exist so to retrieve $x$ from $x_{\mathrm{normalized}}$.

!!! warning
    A variable cannot be normalized if unbounded.

## Handling integer variables

In some cases, GEMSEO can consider integer variables as continuous,
meaning that GEMSEO tries to solve the relaxed optimization problem.
GEMSEO may round integer variable values to keep them consistent with the specified type.
This rounding takes place when the variables vector is unnormalized, and just before a function or its gradient are evaluated.

!!! warning
    Depending on the problem that is being solved and the algorithm that is being used, the results may or may not be affected.

    - In the case of an [OptimizationProblem][gemseo.algos.optimization_problem.OptimizationProblem],
    the main issue is that this rounding introduces discontinuities.

        Gradient-based algorithms are very sensitive to discontinuities and do not handle integer variables, they may not crash, but they will probably end up returning local minima, not converging, or exhibit unexpected behavior.

        Gradient-free algorithms handle rounding a little bit better, in the case of COBYLA it is equivalent to a strong relaxation. Still, we strongly recommend to choose carefully to avoid issues.

        By default, GEMSEO will not allow the user to run an [OptimizationProblem][gemseo.algos.optimization_problem.OptimizationProblem] using an algorithm that does not handle integer variables. However, since the potential issues also depend on the problem itself, a user can skip this check passing the argument `skip_int_check=True` in `algo_options`.

        For updated information about the optimization algorithms that handle integer variables, refer to [the available algorithms][available-optimization-algorithms].

    - In the case of an [MDOScenario][gemseo.scenarios.mdo.MDOScenario],
      using a DoE algorithm,
      or an [EvaluationScenario][gemseo.scenarios.evaluation.EvaluationScenario],
      there are no convergence issues because we are only evaluating pre-defined samples.
      Nevertheless, one should remember that the samples generated by the DoE algorithm will be rounded if necessary.
      This may impact the mathematical properties of the sample distribution.
