# This file was autogenerated by uv via the following command:
#    uv pip compile --python-platform linux --group doc --extra all --python-version 3.12 pyproject.toml -o requirements/doc.txt
accessible-pygments==0.0.5
    # via pydata-sphinx-theme
alabaster==1.0.0
    # via sphinx
annotated-types==0.7.0
    # via pydantic
autodoc-pydantic==2.2.0
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml:doc)
autodocsumm==0.2.14
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml:doc)
babel==2.17.0
    # via
    #   pydata-sphinx-theme
    #   sphinx
beautifulsoup4==4.13.4
    # via pydata-sphinx-theme
certifi==2025.8.3
    # via requests
charset-normalizer==3.4.2
    # via requests
contourpy==1.3.3
    # via matplotlib
cycler==0.12.1
    # via matplotlib
dill==0.4.0
    # via openturns
docstring-inheritance==2.2.2
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
docutils==0.21.2
    # via
    #   pybtex-docutils
    #   pydata-sphinx-theme
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinxcontrib-bibtex
et-xmlfile==2.0.0
    # via openpyxl
fastjsonschema==2.21.1
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
fonttools==4.59.0
    # via matplotlib
genson==1.3.0
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
graphviz==0.21
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
h5py==3.14.0
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
idna==3.10
    # via requests
imagesize==1.4.1
    # via sphinx
jinja2==3.1.6
    # via
    #   gemseo (pyproject.toml)
    #   sphinx
joblib==1.5.1
    # via scikit-learn
kiwisolver==1.4.8
    # via matplotlib
latexcodec==3.0.1
    # via pybtex
markupsafe==3.0.2
    # via jinja2
matplotlib==3.10.3
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
minisom==2.3.5
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
mpmath==1.3.0
    # via sympy
mypy-extensions==1.1.0
    # via typing-inspect
networkx==3.5
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
nlopt==2.9.1
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
numpy==2.3.1
    # via
    #   gemseo (pyproject.toml)
    #   contourpy
    #   h5py
    #   matplotlib
    #   nlopt
    #   pandas
    #   pydoe3
    #   pyxdsm
    #   scikit-learn
    #   scipy
openpyxl==3.1.5
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
openturns==1.25
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
packaging==25.0
    # via
    #   gemseo (pyproject.toml)
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandera
    #   plotly
    #   sphinx
pandas==2.3.0
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
pandera==0.25.0
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml:doc)
pbr==6.1.1
    # via sphinxcontrib-apidoc
pillow==11.2.1
    # via
    #   gemseo (pyproject.toml)
    #   gemseo (pyproject.toml:doc)
    #   matplotlib
    #   sphinx-gallery
plotly==5.24.1
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
prettytable==3.16.0
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
psutil==7.0.0
    # via openturns
pybtex==0.25.1
    # via
    #   pybtex-docutils
    #   sphinxcontrib-bibtex
pybtex-docutils==1.0.3
    # via sphinxcontrib-bibtex
pydantic==2.11.7
    # via
    #   gemseo (pyproject.toml)
    #   autodoc-pydantic
    #   pandera
    #   pydantic-settings
pydantic-core==2.33.2
    # via pydantic
pydantic-settings==2.10.1
    # via autodoc-pydantic
pydata-sphinx-theme==0.16.1
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml:doc)
pydoe3==1.0.5
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
pyenchant==3.2.2
    # via
    #   gemseo (pyproject.toml:doc)
    #   sphinxcontrib-spelling
pygments==2.19.2
    # via
    #   accessible-pygments
    #   pydata-sphinx-theme
    #   sphinx
pyparsing==3.2.3
    # via matplotlib
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
python-dotenv==1.1.1
    # via pydantic-settings
pytz==2025.2
    # via pandas
pyxdsm==2.3.1
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
pyyaml==6.0.2
    # via pybtex
requests==2.32.4
    # via
    #   gemseo (pyproject.toml)
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinxcontrib-spelling
roman-numerals-py==3.1.0
    # via sphinx
scikit-learn==1.7.0
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
scipy==1.15.2
    # via
    #   gemseo (pyproject.toml)
    #   pydoe3
    #   scikit-learn
setuptools==80.9.0
    # via
    #   gemseo (pyproject.toml:doc)
    #   pbr
six==1.17.0
    # via python-dateutil
snowballstemmer==3.0.1
    # via sphinx
soupsieve==2.7
    # via beautifulsoup4
sphinx==8.2.3
    # via
    #   gemseo (pyproject.toml:doc)
    #   autodoc-pydantic
    #   autodocsumm
    #   pydata-sphinx-theme
    #   sphinx-design
    #   sphinx-gallery
    #   sphinxcontrib-apidoc
    #   sphinxcontrib-bibtex
    #   sphinxcontrib-plantuml
    #   sphinxcontrib-spelling
sphinx-design==0.6.1
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml:doc)
sphinx-gallery==0.19.0
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml:doc)
sphinxcontrib-apidoc==0.6.0
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml:doc)
sphinxcontrib-applehelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-bibtex==2.6.5
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml:doc)
sphinxcontrib-devhelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp==2.1.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-jsmath==1.0.1
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-plantuml==0.30
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml:doc)
sphinxcontrib-qthelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-spelling==8.0.1
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml:doc)
strenum==0.4.15
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
sympy==1.14.0
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
tenacity==9.1.2
    # via plotly
threadpoolctl==3.6.0
    # via scikit-learn
tqdm==4.67.1
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
typeguard==4.4.4
    # via pandera
typing-extensions==4.14.1
    # via
    #   gemseo (pyproject.toml)
    #   beautifulsoup4
    #   pandera
    #   pydantic
    #   pydantic-core
    #   pydata-sphinx-theme
    #   typeguard
    #   typing-inspect
    #   typing-inspection
typing-inspect==0.9.0
    # via pandera
typing-inspection==0.4.1
    # via
    #   pydantic
    #   pydantic-settings
tzdata==2025.2
    # via pandas
urllib3==2.5.0
    # via requests
wcwidth==0.2.13
    # via prettytable
xdsmjs==2.0.0
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
xxhash==3.5.0
    # via gemseo (pyproject.toml)
